Did you know that ninety percent 
of the information processed by  
the brain is visual? Human brain takes 13 
milliseconds to process an image, that's  
60,000 times faster than processing text. 
People also retain 80% of what they see,  
compared with 20% of what they read 
and only 10% of what they hear.
No wonder, then, that data visualization 
tools are in high demand. Visuals provide  
us with an effective way to get our point across, 
especially nowadays, when we're dealing with poor  
data than ever. And not all visuals are created 
equally though, some help you uncover dangers or  
opportunities that you never even knew to look 
for. I'll cover my favorite Power BI visuals I  
wish Excel had. You're going to see how easy it 
is to turn your data into actionable decisions.
Number one is the Ribbon Chart. This is great for 
viewing data over time and also keeping track of  
rank changes. It's right here. Let's add it to 
our report and we get an idea of how it's going  
to look, but let's bring it to life. We're going 
to add total quantity to the y-axis and let's add  
an element of time to the x-axis. So here, I 
just have three months of data in this model,  
I'll just add in the months. Now, I get 
something that looks like a column chart,  
the ribbon is going to form when I add a category 
to the legend. So, I want to take a look at  
the different article categories and how these 
developed over time. Let's add that to the legend  
and now, our ribbon comes to life. The way 
this works is that the highest range is always  
displayed on top. We can see our columns in the 
background. We have now stacked columns because  
we have different categories. So if I hover over 
this, we can see the total quantity for business,  
for casual clothing, party, and so on. And, the 
beauty is the lighter areas in between. This is  
where we get to see the rank changes. Just like 
in the music charts, where you get to see a change  
in rank, it's a similar concept here, and all of 
this is built in. So our business clothing here,  
dropped two ranks. It was number one in February, 
it became number three in March. And this one,  
right here, that's our casual clothing, it went up 
one rank to first place. Now, the ribbon chart can  
be a bit difficult to read, so we can make some 
adjustments here to make it easier. First of all,  
on the x-axis, we can turn off the title, let's 
turn on the data labels, and let's also activate  
this Zoom slider. Here, if you want to get a 
closer look at January for that bottom category,  
we can zoom in and we see, oh yeah, this is 
our Sleep category and we sold 500 items.  
Now, this can get quickly overcrowded, if you have 
many different categories. So, it could make sense  
to add a filter to the visual and just restrict 
it to your top categories. So, for a filter type,  
we would go with Top N, we're going to base this 
on total quantity and we just, say, let's take  
a look at the top three categories. Number two 
is the decomposition tree. This is an AI Visual  
and it lets you visualize data across multiple 
dimensions. You're going to find it right here,  
let's add that in. We get to pick what fields 
we want to analyze, I'm going to go with profit.  
Now, we can decide what we want to explain this 
by one field can be our article category another  
customer gender and perhaps customer City now we 
get the Plus show up here we can choose how we  
want to split our data when I select this I have 
the option between the different fields that I've  
added and also this part with high value and low 
value. Notice the light bulb here, that's the AI  
feature. This might help you uncover issues that 
you didn't even know to look for. So, let's say,  
I'm going to go with low value. The AI is going 
to get to work and decide what category it should  
show me. It picked City, Garland. We have negative 
profit here. Where is it coming from? Let's dig  
deeper. Low value, just from our sleep category, 
and if we go again to gender, it's from other or  
NA. Now, once we've picked what we want to see, 
we can apply that same pattern to different values  
here. So, for example, for LA, if I just click 
here, it's going to find the low value, so it  
picked other/NA for gender, and it's coming from 
the casual clothing category. To see the different  
categories for female, I just have to make a 
selection here and I can see party is where we  
have the lowest profit. Now whatever you want you 
can start the process again and look for something  
else. So you could decide to look for high value. 
This time the AI picked the gender category. Now  
you also don't have to use the AI feature, you 
could go and slice and dice as you want. So  
you're going to go with gender, let's drill down 
for male, by category and notice here, the party  
category is making negative profit. And if I want 
to see where it's coming from, I'm going to drill  
into City. It's coming from Seattle. If you want 
to lock a field in place, you can. So notice,  
when you hover over these, you get the lock 
icon, so if you always want to have your first  
drill down to be gender, you can lock it in place 
and then leave the rest flexible. Okay, so this  
is a great visual for getting information about 
your data that you didn't even know to look for.  
Next up is the scatter chart. I know Excel 
has one but it's not as cool as Power BI's.  
Check this out, we're going to add the scatter 
chart. Let's bring over the sales value to the  
x-axis, profit to the y-axis, total quantity is 
going to go for the size of the legend. Okay,  
I just have one bubble now, but we're going 
to split this by customer state, so I'm going  
to add State as the legend. Now, I can see my 
different bubbles here. So this one is California,  
it's all the way up here. Now, what makes this 
so different to Excel, well, it's this part,  
the Play axis. We can add a time factor here, 
so I have my dates right here, in this case,  
I just have three months of data, so I'm going 
to grab the month and drop it in the Play axis.  
This is also difficult to read with the legend up 
here, so let's go and quickly format this visual,  
turn off the legend, turn on the category 
labels, and let's also make them bigger.  
Okay, so California is all the way up here 
in March, but was it always like this? Well,  
let's play this. We see January, February and 
March. If you have data for longer time periods,  
you are going to be able to just play 
this and understand the change over time.  
And last, we have infographics and custom visuals. 
You see, the great thing about Power BI is that,  
you aren't even restricted to what you see 
here. You can go and grab more visuals.  
From here, you get to search for what you want. 
I'm gonna go and grab the infographic designer.  
Let's add it in, it was successfully 
imported and I can see it on the bottom here.  
Each custom visual has its own settings but let me 
show you something cool you can do with this one.  
Let's add it in, add in gender and total quantity. 
I'm going to change up my measure to show values  
as percent of grand total. Okay, so now, let's 
go to formatting options and see what we have.  
We just get chart, we can pick between different 
types, I'm going to stick to column. We can turn  
off the X/Y axis, but where can we add our shapes? 
Well, now here, we can add it in, right here.  
Okay, let me just expand this so we can see 
the options better. I'll bring it up and we get  
specific designer options. This is where we can 
add in the different shapes that we want. If you  
want each column to have a different shape, which 
in this case I want, we're going to go to data  
binding off and select our data binding field, 
this is gender. Now, we can select a different  
shape for each of these. When I select this, I 
can pick different shapes from here. Under people,  
there's a female one, let's go with that. Male, 
this one right here. Other/NA, I don't find what  
I want here. No problem, we can upload our own SVG 
file. I happen to have one here let's select that,  
and add it in. Now we can apply this and we see 
these update. But I want them to have the same  
height, so I'm going to go to layout adjust this 
setting to be outer. Okay, so things are looking  
better. We want to add our filling based on the 
percentage, so fill percentage is going to be  
based on percentage of total quantity. But notice, 
female is fully filled in. I don't want that,  
so we're going to add a maximum value of 1. And 
now, the filling is updated accordingly. Now,  
you have more options so you can adjust the color, 
if you want. I'm going to turn this on and go with  
a light yellow color. You can also add the actual 
percentage to this, so we can go and add text.  
I want the text to be dynamic, it should be a data 
label based on percentage of total quantity, let's  
apply that. Go back and adjust the formatting, 
let's make it really big, make it bold and add  
it to the bottom. Okay so, that looks good. Let's 
make this smaller. Now, the great thing about  
this is that, it works similar to other Power BI 
visuals. You can cross-highlight and cross-filter.  
Let's say, we had a bar chart in place that was 
showing our profit for the different categories.  
When I select the different categories, my 
visual is automatically cross-highlighted.  
I hope this brief introduction to some cool Power 
BI visuals inspired you to be creative when you  
design your reports, and also to experiment 
a little bit. It just takes two minutes,  
maximum, I guess, to add a new chart and tweak it 
a bit to see what it's capable of. If you have a  
favorite Power BI visual, let me know what it 
is in the comments below. Before you leave,  
like, subscribe and I'm going 
to see you in the next video.
