Have you ever wondered how researchers consider
data as a part of their research proposal
or project design?
This video will introduce you to data and
ethics, including questions for you to consider
regarding your own information and research.
What is data ethics?
In the broadest sense, data is simply a piece
of information.
Data could be facts or statistics, which is
often why we think about data as being numbers,
but data can be in a variety of forms.
For example, data could even be an image or
a physical sample (like a cell sample).
Any time we start talking or even thinking
about data, we should also think about data ethics.
According to the National Center for Biotechnology
Information, data ethics can be defined as,
“a new branch of ethics that studies and
evaluates moral problems related to data,
algorithms, and corresponding practices in
order to formulate and support morally good
solutions."
Additionally, data ethics considers the how
and in what way is sensitive data shared,
maintained, analyzed, and appropriated.
Sensitive data is personally identifiable
information, such as human samples, survey
results, even your DNA.
Why do we need to consider ethics in data?
We need to consider ethics in data because
data is created every day, and this data is
becoming increasingly more and more detailed.
How we interact with this data is extremely important.
We also need to be mindful about where all of this data is coming from.
Let’s look at Google as an example.
Every time you watch a YouTube video, go to
Google maps, put something in your calendar,
search something on a Google search engine,
or send an email -- Google is collecting data.
To give you an idea of just how much data
Google collects, they collect over 20 million
web pages per day, over 3 million daily search
queries, and according to CNN, Google can track
your searches on your individual devices for
up to 6 months even if you’re not logged
in to your account.
This example is just one of many to consider.
Any time we think about data collection and
data ethics, we should ask ourselves: How
is this data being used?
How is this data being shared?
And what are the repercussions of this data
collection, short term and long term?
What are some situations where you should
consider data ethics?
Any time you’re about to start collecting
data or giving your data, you should consider
the ethical practices behind it.
As a student, an easy example for when you
should consider data ethics could be when
you fill out surveys.
Did you provide any identifiable information
in that survey?
If so, were you asked about consent before
you completed the survey?
Moving forward,
how might you change what surveys you complete?
Or, as a researcher how could you design a
survey to address concerns that you yourself
may have when collecting data?
Additionally, how do you know you’re complying
with institutional requirements (and don’t
worry, you’ll learn about these if you don’t
know now!).
When should ethics be considered?
At the start of every research project!
To ensure you have the proper training, ask
your professor, research mentor, or a librarian
for help.
