Hey there, I'm Mike, and today we're going to look
over the top 15 Python frameworks
you need to master in 2023.
(upbeat music)
Python has quickly become
one of the most popular programming languages
due to its simplicity, versatility,
and abundance of resources available to those
learning the language.
It's often the first language
that beginner programmers learn,
and it's also widely used in the industry
for purposes ranging from web development to data analysis.
In this video, we'll dissect the most popular
and useful Python frameworks that you should get to know.
But before we get started,
I wanna let you know that there'll be links
to more resources in the video's description.
And remember, subscribe and ring that bell
to get notifications
for future helpful content.
Now, let's check out the top 15 Python frameworks.
The following are lightweight microframeworks,
useful when you want to create a simple app rapidly
or have little memory consumption in your server.
Do you want to create ridiculously light web applications
with no other dependencies?
Bottle is a lightweight Python microframework
designed to easily build small
or medium-sized web applications.
It doesn't include any external dependencies,
aside from the Python standard library.
Its built-in templates make it easy to learn and use.
Bottle is built on top of the WSGI standard
and is compatible with most web servers and Python versions.
CherryPy is a minimalistic
website application development framework for Python.
It's an object-oriented framework that allows you
to build web applications in the same way
you would with any other OOP in Python.
It's been around since 2002,
and has been widely adopted in production environments
across a diverse range of websites,
from those with simple functionality
to those that demand high complexity.
For example, both giant software services Netflix and Hulu
use CherryPy as a part of their infrastructure.
The main task of CherryPy is to handle HTTP requests
and match them with an adequate logic
written by the developers.
This means that by default,
CherryPy doesn't provide database access or HTML templating,
leaving all the logic of the application to you.
The following are complete web frameworks
that include components for common web development tasks,
such as database access, form handling, and security.
Unlike microframeworks, Python web frameworks
provide everything you need out of the box.
You should really consider your needs
when building a web app.
Sometimes it's more than enough to just use WordPress.
Django is one of the most popular
and widely used web frameworks in the Python ecosystem.
It's a rock solid full stack framework
that includes everything you need to build
a complete web application.
It was first introduced in 2005
as a Pythonic way to build a newsletter site.
Nowadays, it's one of the most used Python libraries
for web development,
with almost 8 million downloads per month.
Some of the biggest sites ever made
were originally created with Django, such as Instagram,
discus, Pinterest, Bitbucket, and Chess.com.
Django follows the model view template architecture,
and includes built-in features such as templating,
database management, admin panel, signals,
and views to manage the logic of your backend.
To master Django,
it's advisable you have strong fundamentals
of Python object-oriented programming,
as well as functional programming.
You won't go wrong by choosing Django
for your next web project.
It's a powerful web framework
that provides everything you need
to build fast and reliable websites.
And if you need any additional features,
say the ability to create a REST API
to use with modern front-end frameworks
like React or Angular, you can use extensions
like Django REST framework.
Plus, Django is one of the simplest frameworks
to set up and deploy through Kinsta.
FastAPI is a modern web framework
that does one thing spectacularly well,
build APIs.
Since it's released in 2018,
it has rapidly gained popularity
due to its great performance and simplicity.
In fact, FastAPI has over 9 million monthly downloads,
surpassing even full-stack frameworks like Django.
Bear in mind that FastAPI's only purpose
is to build backend APIs.
That means you must have a frontend framework like Vue.js
to display your site to your users.
That said, the framework is incredibly easy to work with,
and you can even deploy an app with your FastAPI
through Kinsta and your GitHub repo in mere minutes.
Pyramid is a flexible and extensible web framework
that's well-suited for both small and large applications.
It's the sweet spot between a microframework like Flask
and a full-stack framework like Django.
Pyramid includes the most common features you would need
when developing a Python web application,
but it'll lets you focus on only the components
you need for your project.
The following Python graphical user interface frameworks
provide a wide range of tools and features
for creating desktop applications,
including support for event-driven programming,
widgets, and graphics.
PyQt is one of the most popular sets of Python buildings
for the Qt cross-platform application framework.
This framework perfectly combines the simplicity of Python
as a general purpose language,
and the powerful Qt application framework built in C++.
A binding is an API, think of it as like a bridge,
between two programming languages.
In this case, the Python bindings for Qt
mean you can use the Qt tools written originally in C++
inside your Python code.
Bear in mind that PyQt comes with two licensing options.
GPL version 3 is free to use,
but anyone you distribute it to is able to redistribute it.
And Commercial,
and this lets you keep your code private
so you can monetize your work,
but you'll have to pay for a license
for every developer that uses it.
Currently, it's about $550 per developer.
Tkinter is a built-in Python GUI framework.
It's part of the standard library,
so you won't have to install any additional dependencies.
Similar to PyQt, which uses Qt,
Tkinter uses a graphical user interface toolkit called Tk.
It also provides a set of tools for creating various widgets
such as buttons, labels, text boxes, and menus.
In general, Tkinter is a great way to quickly create
small GUI programs, but due to its outdated look and feel,
you might be better off
choosing a beefier framework for bigger projects.
The following are Python software libraries
that provide pre-built functionality and tools
to help developers build and deploy machine learning models,
supporting common tasks such as data processing,
model training and evaluation,
as well as tools for deploying models to production.
scikit-lern is the most popular machine learning library
being used both in the tech industry and in academia.
It provides efficient tools for common ML tasks,
and it's built on top of other scientific libraries
like Numpy and SciPy.
TensorFlow is an open source platform
for building and deploying machine learning models.
Deployed by the Google Brain team in 2015,
it's a powerful library for deep learning,
with a wide range of tools
for building and training neural networks.
TensorFlow can be used for a variety of tasks,
such as image and language processing,
speech recognition, and predictive analytics.
These frameworks help students, scientists, and researchers
to perform their tasks without focusing
on the low level details of the computation.
Scientific computing frameworks often include functionality
for linear algebra, optimization, interpolation, integration
and other common tasks in scientific computing.
NumPy is a scientific computing library
that is designed to handle multi-dimensional arrays
and matrices of numerical data.
It also provides a wide range of mathematical functions
to operate on these arrays.
NumPy is the foundation block
for many other Python libraries and frameworks
using data science, including SciPy, Pandas,
scikit-learn, and TensorFlow
SciPy provides a collection of algorithms and functions
built on top of the NumPy.
It helps to perform common scientific and engineering tasks,
such as optimization, signal processing,
integration, linear algebra, and more.
These frameworks are all about helping you
in the tedious process of testing your code.
If you're using test-driven development,
the following frameworks are a must in your workflow.
Pytest is a widely adopted testing framework
that is designed to be easy to use and extend.
It helps you to write elegant tests
in both small and complex Python codebases.
Unittest is a built-in Python testing framework
that is based on the xUnit testing conventions.
It provides a Pythonic and object-oriented way
of creating automated test cases and suites of tests.
These types of Python frameworks provide a set of tools
and libraries that enable developers
to write asynchronous code
in a more manageable and efficient way.
asyncio is at the heart
of many other asynchronous frameworks.
It allows developers to create concurrent code
using the async/await syntax, and it's designed to handle
thousands of concurrent connections.
asyncio provides a single API
for multiple transport protocols,
such as TCP, UDP,
SSL/TLS, and subprocess communication.
Aiohttp is an asynchronous HTTP client/server framework
built on top of the asyncio package.
It provides a simple and intuitive interface
for handling HTTP requests and responses,
as well as support for middleware, sessions,
and other web development tools.
Python frameworks can help to promote code organization,
increase productivity,
and make the software development process
easier and more efficient.
Which Python frameworks have you worked with
and what's been your favorite?
Share your thoughts in the comment section below.
At Kinsta, we take hosting
and performance to the next level.
With our application hosting, you can run almost any app
in a matter of minutes with full support
for all of your favorite languages and frameworks.
And our database hosting allows for easy database creation,
with full control over every aspect of your project.
Explore these features and more
at kinsta.com/application-hosting,
and thank you so much for watching.
If you found this video helpful,
please don't forget to like, subscribe,
and hit the notification bell from more tutorials,
explainers, and helpful content like this.
(upbeat music)
