Hello—and welcome to the Google Career
Certificate focused on cybersecurity!
I’m so excited that you’re here!
My name is Toni and I am a Security
Engineering Manager at Google.
I’ll be your instructor for the first course
of this certificate program.
By starting this course, you've already
taken a big step toward building new skills
that will help you in your career.
Cybersecurity may seem daunting at first, but
you'd be surprised by the different
backgrounds many of us have.
I worked as an intelligence analyst before I
got my first job in the security industry,
and I'm excited to be your instructor as you
begin YOUR journey into security.
The Demand for security professionals is
growing at an incredible rate.
By 2030, the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics expects security
roles to grow by more than 30%, which is
higher than the average growth rate for
other occupations.
Global access to the Internet is expanding.
Every day more people and organizations are
adopting new digital technologies.
Having a diverse community of security
professionals with unique backgrounds,
perspectives and experiences is essential
for protecting and serving different markets.
Working in security has allowed me to work
with people from all around the world.
Working with people who have diverse
backgrounds ensures that our teams get to ask
lots of questions and come up with more
creative solutions.
The main objective in security is to protect
organizations AND people.
This line of work allows you to support and
interact with people across the globe.
There are many openings for entry-level
security analysts, and employers are
struggling to find enough candidates with
the right expertise.
This program is designed to give YOU the
knowledge and skills you need to start or
advance in the security profession.
No matter your current skill level, by the
time you finish this certificate program,
you'll be prepared to find a
security-related job or expand your career in
security! You may be wondering, what do
security professionals actually DO?
Have you ever had to update your password
online to include a number or a special
symbol? If so, then you’re already familiar
with basic security measures, like password
management. And, if you've ever received a
notification from a service provider about
stolen data or a software hack, then you
have first-hand experience with the impact of
a security breach.
If you’ve ever asked yourself how
organizations safeguard data, then you
already have two important traits that are
necessary to thrive in this industry:
curiosity and excitement.
Security analysts help minimize risks to
organizations and people.
Analysts work to proactively guard against
incidents while continuously monitoring
systems and networks.
And, if an incident does occur, they
investigate and report their findings.
They are always asking questions and looking
for solutions.
One of the best things about the security
industry is the many paths and career options
it exposes you to! Each option involves a
unique set of skills and responsibilities.
No matter what your background is, you’ll
probably find that you already have some
relevant experience.
If you enjoy collaborating with and helping
others, solving puzzles, and are motivated by
challenges, then this is the career for you!
For example, my background as an intelligence
analyst had nothing to do with cybersecurity.
However, having strong critical thinking
skills and communication skills provided a
solid foundation for my success when I
decided to pursue a career in security.
If you’re not sure what direction you want to
take in the security industry, that’s okay.
This program will give you an overview of
many different types of available jobs.
It will also let you explore certain
specialized skill sets to help you figure out
where you want to take your career.
The Google Career Certificates are designed
by industry professionals with decades of
experience here at Google.
You’ll have a different expert from Google
guide you through each course in the
certificate. We’ll share our knowledge in
videos, provide practice opportunities with
hands-on activities, and take you through
real scenarios that you might encounter on
the job. Throughout this program, you’ll
gain hands-on practice with detecting and
responding to attacks, monitoring and
protecting networks, investigating incidents,
and writing code to automate tasks.
The program is made up of several courses
that are designed to help you land an
entry-level job! You’ll learn about topics
like: core security concepts; security
domains; network security; computing basics
- including Linux and SQL; along with
understanding assets, threats, and
vulnerabilities.
Our goal is to help you reach YOUR goal of
joining the security industry.
You’ll learn about incident detection and
response, as well as how to use programming
languages, like Python, to accomplish common
security tasks.
You’ll also gain valuable job search
strategies that will benefit you as you begin
to find and apply for jobs in the security
profession.
Completing this Google Career Certificate
will help you develop skills and learn how to
use tools to prepare you for a job in a
fast-growing, high-demand field.
The certificate is designed to prepare you
for a job in three to six months, if you work
on the certificate part-time.
And once you graduate, you can connect with
over 200 employers who are interested in
hiring Google Career Certificate graduates,
like you.
Whether you're looking to switch jobs, start
a new career, or level-up your skills, this
Google Career Certificate can open doors to
new job opportunities.
You don’t need prior experience or knowledge
in the security field because this
certificate program will begin with the
basics.
I’ll be by your side throughout this first
course, making sure that you’re learning the
foundational knowledge needed to succeed in
the field.
This program is also flexible.
You can complete all of the courses in this
certificate on your own terms and at your own
pace, online.
We’ve gathered some amazing instructors to
support you on your journey—and they’d like
to introduce themselves now:
Hi! My name is Ashley, and I'm a Customer
Engineering Enablement Lead for Security
Operation Sales at Google.
I'll take you through security domains,
frameworks and controls, as well as common
security threats, risks, and
vulnerabilities.
You’ll also be introduced to common tools
used by security analysts.
I can't wait to get started!
Hi there! My name is Chris, and I'm the Chief
Information Security Officer for Google
Fiber. I’m excited to talk to you about the
structure of a network, network protocols,
common network attacks, and how to secure a
network.
Hi there! My name is Kim, and I'm a Technical
Program Manager at Google.
I will guide you through foundational
computing skills that support the work of a
security analyst.
We'll also learn about operating systems,
the Linux command line, and SQL.
Hi! My name is Da’Queshia, and I'm a Security
Engineer at Google.
Together we'll explore protecting
organizational assets through a variety of
security controls and develop a deeper
understanding of risks and vulnerabilities.
Hi! My name is Dave, and I'm a Principal
Security Strategist at Google.
In our time together, we'll learn about
detecting and responding to security
incidents. You’ll also have the chance to
monitor and analyze network activity using
powerful security tools.
Hello, I’m Ángel, and I'm a Security Engineer
at Google.
We’ll explore foundational Python
programming concepts to help you automate
common security tasks.
Hello, I’m Dion, I’m a Program Manager at
Google.
I’m your instructor for the first portion of
the final course of the program.
There, we’ll discuss how to escalate
incidents and communicate with stakeholders.
And my name is Emily. I'm a Program Manager
at Google.
I'll guide you through the final portion of
the program and share ways that you can
engage with the security community and
prepare for your upcoming job search.
And, as you already know, I’ll guide you
through the first course of this program.
This is such a great time to grow your
career in the field of security.
Sound exciting? Let’s get started!
Hi again! Now that you have some idea of what
to expect from the program as a whole, let's
discuss more about what you'll learn in THIS
course.
This course will introduce you to the world
of security and how it’s used to protect
business operations, users, and devices so
you can contribute to the creation of a safer
internet for all.
In this section we’ll cover foundational
security concepts.
First, we’ll define security.
Then, we’ll explore common job
responsibilities of security analysts.
Building on that, we’ll cover core skills a
security analyst may have.
Finally, we’ll discuss the value of security
for protecting organizations and people.
Later on, we’ll cover eight security domains.
Then, we’ll cover common security frameworks
and controls.
Finally, we’ll wrap up the course by
discussing common tools and programming
languages that entry-level security analysts
may use.
Coming up, we’ll go over some resources that
will allow you to get the most out of this
program. I’m really excited for you to start
this journey—let’s begin!
Imagine that you’re preparing for a storm.
You’ve received notification that a storm is
coming.
You prepare by gathering the tools and
materials you’ll need to stay safe.
You make sure your windows and doors are
secure.
You assemble a first aid kit, tools, food,
and water.
You’re prepared! The storm hits, and there
are powerful winds and heavy rain.
The storm is using its force to try and
breach your home.
You notice some water leaks and begin
patching them quickly in order to minimize
any risk or potential damage.
Handling a security incident is no different.
Organizations must prepare for the storm by
ensuring they have the tools to mitigate and
quickly respond to outside threats.
The objective is to minimize risk and
potential damage.
As a security analyst, you’ll work to protect
your organization and the people it serves,
from a variety of risks and outside threats.
And if a threat does get through, you and
your team will provide a solution to remedy
the situation. To help you better understand
what this means, we’ll define security and
discuss the roles of security professionals
in organizations.
Let’s start with some definitions:
Cybersecurity, or security, is the practice
of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of information by protecting
networks, devices, people, and data from
unauthorized access or criminal exploitation.
For example, requiring complex passwords to
access sites and services improves
confidentiality by making it much more
difficult for a threat actor to compromise
them. A threat actor is any person or group
who presents a security risk.
Now that you know the definition of security,
let’s discuss what security teams do for an
organization. Security protects against
external and internal threats.
An external threat is someone outside of the
organization trying to gain access to private
information, networks, or devices.
An internal threat comes from current or
former employees, external vendors, or
trusted partners.
Often these internal threats are accidental,
such as an employee clicking on a compromised
link in an email. Other times, the internal
actor INTENTIONALLY engages in activities
such as unauthorized data access or abusing
systems for personal use.
Experienced security professionals will help
organizations mitigate - or reduce the impact
of - threats like these.
Security teams also ensure an organization
meets regulatory compliance, or laws and
guidelines, that require the implementation
of specific security standards.
Ensuring that organizations are in compliance
may allow them to avoid fines and audits,
while also upholding their ethical
obligation to protect users.
Security teams also maintain and improve
business productivity.
By establishing a plan for business
continuity, security teams allow people to do
their jobs even in the case of something
like a data breach.
Being security conscious can also reduce
expenses associated with risk, such as
recovering from data loss or operational
downtime, and potentially avoiding fines.
The last benefit of security that we'll
discuss is maintaining brand trust.
If services or customer data are
compromised, this can lower trust in the
organization, damage the brand, and hurt the
business in the long term.
Loss of customer trust may also lead to less
revenue for the business.
Now, let’s go over some common security-based
roles.
After completing this certificate program,
here are some job titles you may want to
search for: Security analyst or specialist,
Cybersecurity analyst or specialist,
Security operations center or SOC analyst,
And Information security analyst.
You'll also learn more about the responsibilities
associated with some of these job titles
later in the program.
As you may now realize, the field of security
includes many topics and concepts.
And every activity you complete in this
program moves you one step closer to a new
job! Let's keep learning together!
Technology is rapidly changing, and so are
the tactics and techniques that attackers
use. As digital infrastructure evolves,
security professionals are expected to
continually grow their skills in order to
protect and secure sensitive information.
In this video, we’ll discuss some job
responsibilities of an entry-level security
analyst. So, what do security analysts do?
Security analysts are responsible for
monitoring and protecting information and
systems. Now, we'll discuss three primary
responsibilities of a security analyst,
starting with protecting computer and
network systems.
Protecting computer and network systems
requires an analyst to monitor an
organization's internal network.
If a threat is detected, then an analyst is
generally the first to respond.
Analysts also often take part in exercises to
search for weaknesses in an organization's
own systems. For example, a security analyst
may contribute to penetration testing or
ethical hacking. The goal is to penetrate -
or hack - their own organization's internal
network to identify vulnerabilities and
suggest ways to strengthen their security
measures. Think of it like this.
After you lock your car, you check the door
handles to make sure no one can access any
valuables you keep inside.
Security analysts also proactively work to
PREVENT threats from happening in the first
place. One way they do this is by working
with information technology - or I-T - teams
to install prevention software for the
purposes of identifying risks and
vulnerabilities. Analysts may also be
involved in software and hardware
development. They’ll often work with
development teams to support product security
by setting up appropriate processes and
systems to meet the organization’s data
protection needs. The last task we’ll
discuss is conducting periodic security
audits. A security audit is a review of an
organization’s security records, activities,
and other related documents.
For example, an analyst may examine in-house
security issues such as making sure that
confidential information, like individual
computer passwords, isn't available to ALL
employees. Phew, that was a lot to cover!
But hopefully you have a general idea of
what entry-level security analysts do on a
day-to-day basis.
Security analysts are an important part of
any organization.
Their daily tasks protect small businesses,
large companies, non-profit organizations,
and government agencies.
They also help to ensure that the people
served by those organizations remain safe.
For any job, you need certain skills to be
successful, and many of these core skills are
transferable from one role to the next.
No matter what job you currently have, you
likely have many core skills already.
Having a diverse background enhances your
core skills, which means your personal
experiences and perspectives are especially
valuable!
In this video, we’ll discuss both
transferable and technical skills that are
particularly useful for a security analyst.
Transferable skills are skills from other
areas that can apply to different careers.
Technical skills may apply to several
professions as well, however at times they
may require knowledge of specific tools,
procedures, and policies.
Let’s discuss some core transferable skills
you may already have that will benefit you in
a career as a security analyst.
Communication is a transferable skill for a
security analyst.
They will often need to describe certain
threats, risks or vulnerabilities to people
who may not have a technical background.
For example, security analysts may be tasked
with interpreting and communicating policies
and procedures to other employees.
Or analysts may be asked to report findings
to their supervisors, so the appropriate
actions can be taken to secure the
organization.
Another transferable skill is collaboration.
Security analysts often work in teams with
engineers, digital forensic investigators,
and program managers.
For example, if you are working to roll out a
new security feature, you will likely have a
project manager, an engineer, and an ethical
hacker on your team.
Security analysts also need to be able to
analyze complex scenarios that they may
encounter. For example, a security analyst
may need to make recommendations about how
different tools can support efficiency and
safeguard an organization’s internal network.
The last transferable skill that we'll
discuss is problem solving.
Identifying a security problem and then
diagnosing it and providing solutions is a
necessary skill to keep business operations
safe.
Understanding threat actors and identifying
trends can provide insight on how to handle
future threats. Okay, now that we've covered
some important transferable skills, let's
discuss some technical skills that security
analysts need to develop.
A basic understanding of programming
languages is an important skill to develop
because security analysts can use
programming to automate tasks and identify
error messages. Like learning any other
language, learning a programming language may
seem challenging at first.
However, this certificate program assumes no
prior programming experience, so we'll start
at the very beginning and provide several
opportunities for hands-on practice with
languages like Python and SQL!
Another important technical skill is knowing
how to use security information and event
management, or SIEM, tools.
Security professionals use SIEM tools to
identify and analyze security threats, risks,
and vulnerabilities.
For example, a SIEM tool may alert you that
an unknown user has accessed the system.
In the event of an unknown user accessing
the system you may use computer forensics to
investigate the incident.
Now, let’s discuss computer forensics.
Similar to an investigator and a forensic
scientist working in the criminal justice
system, digital forensic investigators will
attempt to identify, analyze, and preserve
criminal evidence within networks,
computers, and electronic devices.
Keep in mind that you may already have some
of the core skills we’ve discussed.
And if you don’t have the technical skills,
that’s okay!
This program is designed to support you in
learning those skills.
For example, over the past seven years
working in cybersecurity I've learned that
security analysts need to have intellectual
curiosity and the motivation to keep learning
in order to succeed. Personally, I dedicate
time on a regular basis towards learning more
Python and SQL skills in order to meet the
demands of the projects I'm working on.
You'll get to learn about Python and SQL
later in this program.
As you continue this journey, you’ll build
the knowledge and skills you need to enter
the security field! As we've discussed,
security professionals protect many physical
and digital assets.
These skills are desired by organizations
and government entities because risk needs to
be managed. Let’s continue to discuss why
security matters.
Security is essential for ensuring an
organization's business continuity and
ethical standing. There are both legal
implications and moral considerations to
maintaining an organization’s security.
A data breach, for example, affects everyone
that is associated with the organization.
This is because data losses or leaks can
affect an organization's reputation as well
as the lives and reputations of their users,
clients, and customers.
By maintaining strong security measures,
organizations can increase user trust.
This may lead to financial growth and
ongoing business referrals.
As previously mentioned, organizations are
not the only ones that suffer during a data
breach. Maintaining and securing user,
customer, and vendor data is an important
part of preventing incidents that may expose
people’s personally identifiable information.
Personally identifiable information, known as
P-I-I, is any information used to infer an
individual’s identity.
PII includes someone’s full name, date of
birth, physical address, phone number, email
address, Internet Protocol, or I-P, address
and similar information.
Sensitive personally identifiable
information, known as S-P-I-I, is a specific
type of P-I-I that falls under stricter
handling guidelines and may include social
security numbers, medical or financial
information, and biometric data, such as
facial recognition. If S-P-I-I is stolen,
this has the potential to be significantly
more damaging to an individual than if P-I-I
is stolen.
P-I-I and S-P-I-I data are key assets that a
threat actor will look for if an organization
experiences a breach.
When a person’s identifiable information is
compromised, leaked, or stolen, identity
theft is the primary concern.
Identity theft is the act of stealing
personal information to commit fraud while
impersonating a victim.
And the primary objective of identity theft
is financial gain.
We’ve explored several reasons why security
matters.
Employers need security analysts, like you,
to fill the current and future demand to
protect data, products, and people while
ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and safe
access to information.
This is why the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics expects the
demand for security professionals to grow by
more than 30% by the year 2030.
So keep learning, and eventually you’ll be
able to do your part to create a safer and
more secure environment for organizations
and people alike!
Congratulations on completing the first
section of this course!
Let’s quickly review what we’ve covered so
far, before moving on.
We defined security and introduced the
benefits of implementing security in an
organization. Then, we discussed different
job responsibilities, such as managing
threats and installing prevention software.
We also introduced some important core
skills, like collaboration and computer
forensics. We finished by discussing the
value of security and how it supports
critical business functions.
I hope you've gained a greater understanding
of security.
If you feel like you need a refresher before
moving on, you can always go back and review
any content you’re unsure about.
By learning the basics, you’re laying the
foundation for the rest of your security
career. Coming up, we'll explore some
well-known attacks that shaped the security
industry. I'm excited to continue this
journey with you!
Welcome back! When it comes to security,
there is so much to learn, and I'm thrilled
to be part of your career journey.
This is such an exciting time to be learning
about security!
When I learned about international hacks
that impacted both private companies and
government organizations, I was inspired to
want to work in security because I realized
how dynamic and important this field is.
One reason there are so many jobs in the
security field today is because of attacks
that happened in the 1980s and 1990s.
Decades later, security professionals are
still actively working to protect
organizations and people from variations of
these early computer attacks.
In this section of the course, we’ll discuss
viruses and malware, and introduce the
concept of social engineering.
Then, we'll discuss how the digital age
ushered in a new era of threat actors.
Knowing the evolution of each attack is key
to protecting against future attacks.
Lastly, we’ll provide an overview of eight
security domains.
I hope you are as eager as I am to learn
more!
Next up, we’ll travel back in time to explore
some of the viruses, data breaches, and
malware attacks that have helped shape the
industry as we know it today.
The security industry is constantly evolving,
but many present-day attacks are not entirely
new. Attackers often alter or enhance
previous methods.
Understanding past attacks can provide
direction for how to handle or investigate
incidents in your job as a security analyst.
First, let’s go over a couple of key terms
that will support your understanding of the
attacks we’ll discuss.
A computer virus is malicious code written to
interfere with computer operations and cause
damage to data and software.
The virus attaches itself to programs, or
documents, on a computer.
Then spreads and infects one or more
computers in a network.
A worm is a type of computer virus that can
duplicate and spread on its own without human
involvement. Today, viruses are more
commonly referred to as malware, which is
software designed to harm devices or
networks.
Two examples of early malware attacks that
we’ll cover are the Brain virus and the
Morris worm. They were created by malware
developers to accomplish specific tasks.
However, the developers underestimated the
impact their malware would have and the
amount of “infected” computers there would
be.
Let’s take a closer look at these attacks and
discuss how they helped shape security as we
know it today. In 1986, the Alvi brothers
created the Brain virus.
Although the intention of the virus was to
track illegal copies of medical software and
prevent pirated licenses, what the virus
actually did was unexpected.
Once a person used a pirated copy of the
software, the virus infected that computer.
Then, any disk that was inserted into the
computer was also infected.
The virus spread to a new computer every
time someone used one of the infected disks.
Undetected, the virus spread globally within
a couple of months.
Although the intention was not to destroy
data or hardware, the virus slowed down
productivity and significantly impacted
business operations.
The Brain virus fundamentally altered the
computing industry, emphasizing the need for
a plan to maintain security and
productivity.
As a security analyst, you will follow and
maintain strategies put in place to ensure
your organization has a plan to keep their
data and people safe.
Another influential computer attack was the
Morris worm.
In 1988, Robert Morris developed a program
to assess the size of the internet.
The program crawled the web and installed
itself onto other computers to tally the
number of computers that were connected to
the internet.
Sounds simple, right?
The program, however, failed to keep track of
the computers it had already compromised and
continued to reinstall itself, until the
computers ran out of memory and crashed.
About 6,000 computers were affected,
representing 10% of the internet at the time.
This attack cost millions of dollars in
damages, due to business disruptions and the
efforts required to remove the worm.
After the Morris worm, Computer Emergency
Response Teams, known as CERTs®, were
established to respond to computer security
incidents.
CERTs® still exists today, but their place
in the security industry has expanded to
include more responsibilities.
Later in this program you'll learn more about
the core functions of these security teams
and gain hands-on practice with detection
and response tools.
Early attacks played a key role in shaping
the current security industry.
And coming up, we’ll discuss how attacks
evolved in the digital age!
With the expansion of reliable high-speed
internet, the number of computers connected
to the internet increased dramatically.
Because malware could spread through the
internet, threat actors no longer needed to
use physical disks to spread viruses.
To better understand attacks in the digital
age, we’ll discuss two notable attacks that
relied on the internet: The LoveLetter
attack and the Equifax breach.
In the year 2000, Onel de Guzman created the
LoveLetter malware to steal internet login
credentials. This attack spread rapidly and
took advantage of people who had not
developed a healthy suspicion for
unsolicited emails.
Users received an email with the subject line
“I Love You.” Each email contained an
attachment labeled, “Love Letter For You.”
When the attachment was opened, the malware
scanned a user’s address book.
Then, it automatically sent itself to each
person on the list and installed a program to
collect user information and passwords.
Recipients would think they were receiving an
email from a friend, but it was actually
malware. The LoveLetter ended up infecting
45 million computers globally and is believed
to have caused over $10 billion in damages.
The LoveLetter attack is the first example of
social engineering.
Social engineering is a manipulation
technique that exploits human error to gain
private information, access, or valuables.
After the LoveLetter, attackers understood
the power of social engineering.
The number of social engineering attacks is
increasing with every new social media
application that allows public access to
people's data.
Many people are now prioritizing convenience
over privacy.
The trade off of this evolving shift is that
these tools may lead to increased
vulnerability, if people do not use them
appropriately.
As a security professional, your role is to
identify and manage inappropriate use of
technology that may place your organization
and all the people associated with it at
risk. One way to safeguard your organization
is to conduct regular internal trainings,
which you as a future security analyst may
be asked to lead or participate in.
Today, it’s common for employees to receive
training on how to identify social
engineering attacks.
Specifically, phishing through the emails
they receive.
Phishing is the use of digital
communications to trick people into revealing
sensitive data or deploying malicious
software.
Now let's discuss the Equifax breach.
In 2017, attackers successfully infiltrated
the credit reporting agency, Equifax.
This resulted in one of the largest known
data breaches of sensitive information.
Over 143 million customer records were
stolen, and the breach affected approximately
40% of all Americans.
The records included personally identifiable
information, including social security
numbers, birth dates, driver’s license
numbers, home addresses and credit card
numbers. From a security standpoint, the
breach occurred due to multiple failures on
Equifax's part. It wasn’t just one
vulnerability that the attackers took
advantage of, there were several.
The company failed to take the actions
needed to fix multiple known vulnerabilities
in the months leading up to the data breach.
In the end, Equifax settled with the U.S.
government and paid over $575 million to
resolve customer complaints and cover
required fines.
While there have been other data breaches
before and after the Equifax breach, the
large settlement with the U.S.
government alerted companies to the
financial impact of a breach and the need to
implement preventative measures.
These are just a couple of well-known
incidents that have shaped the security
industry. Knowing about them will help you
in your security career.
Understanding different types of malware and
social engineering attacks will allow you to
communicate about security risks during
future job interviews.
As a future security professional, constantly
adapting and educating yourself on threat
actors’ tactics and techniques will be a
part of your job.
By noticing similar trends, patterns, and
methodologies, you may be able to identify a
potential breach and limit future damage.
Finally, understanding how security affects
people's lives is a good reminder of why the
work you will do is so important!
As the tactics of threat actors evolve, so do
the roles of security professionals.
Having a solid understanding of core
security concepts will support your growth in
this field. One way to better understand
these core concepts is by organizing them
into categories, called security domains.
As of 2022, C-I-S-S-P has defined eight
domains to organize the work of security
professionals. It’s important to understand
that these domains are related and that gaps
in one domain can result in negative
consequences to an entire organization.
It’s also important to understand the domains
because it may help you better understand
your career goals and your role within an
organization.
As you learn more about the elements of each
domain, the work involved in one may appeal
to you more than the others.
This domain may become a career path for you
to explore further.
C-I-S-S-P defines eight domains in total, and
we'll discuss all eight between this video
and the next. In this video, we’re going to
cover the first four: Security and risk
management, asset security, security
architecture and engineering, and
communication and network engineering.
Let’s start with the first domain.
Security and risk management focuses on
defining security goals and objectives, risk
mitigation, compliance, business continuity,
and the law.
For example, security analysts may need to
update company policies related to private
health information if a change is made to a
federal compliance regulation such as the
Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act - also known as HIPPA.
The second domain is asset security.
This domain focuses on securing digital and
physical assets.
It’s also related to the storage,
maintenance, retention, and destruction of
data. When working with this domain,
security analysts may be tasked with making
sure that old equipment is properly disposed
of and destroyed, including any type of
confidential information.
The third domain is security architecture and
engineering.
This domain focuses on optimizing data
security by ensuring effective tools,
systems, and processes are in place.
As a security analyst, you may be tasked with
configuring a firewall.
A firewall is a device used to monitor and
filter incoming and outgoing computer network
traffic. Setting up a firewall correctly
helps prevent attacks that could affect
productivity. The fourth security domain is
communication and network engineering.
This domain focuses on managing and securing
physical networks and wireless
communications. As a security analyst, you
may be asked to analyze user behavior within
your organization. Imagine discovering that
users are connecting to unsecured wireless
hotspots. This could leave the organization
and its employees vulnerable to attacks.
To ensure communications are secure, you
would create a network policy to prevent and
mitigate exposure. Maintaining an
organization’s security is a team effort, and
there are many moving parts.
As an entry-level analyst, you will continue
to develop your skills by learning how to
mitigate risks, to keep people and data
safe.
You don’t need to be an expert in all
domains.
But, having a basic understanding of them
will aid you in your journey as a security
professional. You’re doing great!
We have just introduced the first four
security domains, and in the next video we’ll
discuss four more! See you soon!
Welcome back. In the last video we introduced
you to the first four security domains.
In this video, we’ll introduce you to the
next four security domains: identity and
access management, security assessment and
testing, security operations, and software
development security.
Familiarizing yourself with these domains
will allow you to navigate the complex world
of security. The domains outline and
organize how a team of security professionals
work together. Depending on the
organization, analyst roles may sit at the
intersection of multiple domains or focus on
one specific domain.
Knowing where a particular role fits within
the security landscape will help you prepare
for job interviews and work as part of a
full security team.
Let’s move into the fifth domain.
Identity and access management focuses on
keeping data secure, by ensuring users follow
established policies to control and manage
physical assets, like office spaces, and
logical assets, such as networks and
applications.
Validating the identities of employees and
documenting access roles are essential to
maintaining the organization’s physical and
digital security.
For example, as a security analyst, you may
be tasked with setting up employees'
keycard-access to buildings.
The sixth domain is security assessment and
testing.
This domain focuses on conducting security
control testing, collecting and analyzing
data, and conducting security audits to
monitor for risks, threats, and
vulnerabilities. Security analysts may
conduct regular audits of user permissions,
to make sure that users have the correct
level of access.
For example, access to payroll information
is often limited to certain employees, so
analysts may be asked to regularly audit
permissions to ensure that no unauthorized
person can view employee salaries.
The seventh domain is security operations.
This domain focuses on conducting
investigations and implementing preventative
measures. Imagine that you, as a security
analyst, receive an alert that an unknown
device has been connected to your internal
network.
You would need to follow the organization's
policies and procedures to quickly stop the
potential threat. The final, eighth domain
is software development security.
This domain focuses on using secure coding
practices - which are a set of recommended
guidelines that are used to create secure
applications and services.
A security analyst may work with software
development teams to ensure security
practices are incorporated into the software
development lifecycle.
If, for example, one of your partner teams
is creating a new mobile app, then you may be
asked to advise on the password policies or
ensure that any user data is properly secured
and managed. That ends our introduction to
C-I-S-S-P’s eight security domains.
Challenge yourself to better understand each
of these domains and how they affect the
overall security of an organization.
While they may still be a bit unclear to you
this early in the program, these domains will
be discussed in greater detail in the next
course.
See you there! This concludes our brief
introduction to some of the most influential
security attacks throughout history and
C-I-S-S-P’s eight security domains!
Let’s review what we’ve discussed.
First we covered viruses, including the Brain
virus and the Morris worm, and discussed how
these early forms of malware shaped the
security industry.
We also discussed how many attacks today are
variants of these early examples.
Understanding previous attacks is critical
for security professionals who are working to
protect organizations and people from
possible future variants.
We also discussed social engineering and
threat actor motives by learning about the
LoveLetter attack and the Equifax data
breach.
These incidents showed the widespread impacts
and associated costs of more recent security
breaches in the digital age.
Finally, we introduced C-I-S-S-P’s eight
security domains and how they can be used to
categorize different areas of focus within
the security profession.
I hope you are feeling confident about your
foundational security knowledge!
Learning the history of security can allow
you to better understand the current
industry. C-I-S-S-P’s eight security domains
provide a way to organize the work of
security professionals.
Remember, every security professional is
essential.
Your unique point of view, professional
background, and knowledge are valuable.
So, the diversity you bring to the field
will further improve the security industry as
you work to keep organizations and people
safe.
Hi there—glad to have you back!
You’re half way done with the first course,
so you’re making great progress.
In this section, we’ll discuss how
organizations protect themselves from
threats, risks, and vulnerabilities by
covering key principles such as: frameworks,
controls, and ethics.
To help you better understand how this
relates to the role of a security analyst,
we’ll use an analogy.
Imagine you want to plant a garden.
You research, plan, prepare and purchase
materials while considering all the things
that could potentially present a risk to
your garden.
You establish a plan to pull weeds, spray for
bugs, and water your plants regularly to
prevent issues or incidents.
But as the days go by, unexpected problems
arise.
The weather has been unpredictable, and
pests have been aggressively trying to
infiltrate your garden. You start
implementing better ways to safeguard your
garden by installing a surveillance camera,
building a fence, and covering your plants
with a canopy to keep your garden healthy
and growing.
Now that you have a better idea about the
threats to your garden and how to keep your
plants safe, you establish better policies
and procedures to continuously monitor and
safeguard your garden.
In this way, security resembles a garden.
It’s an evolving industry that will
challenge you to make continuous improvements
to policies and procedures that help protect
your organization and the people it serves.
To that end, we’ll introduce security
frameworks and controls and explain why
they’re important. We’ll also cover core
components and specific examples of
frameworks and controls, including the
Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability
Triad, or C-I-A Triad.
We’ll end with a discussion about the ethics
of security, and share a few notable ethical
concerns in the security field.
Evolving security practices may seem a little
abstract, but many of us use them every day.
For example, I use security keys, which are a
type of security control, as a second form of
authentication to access my accounts.
The keys ensure that only I can access my
accounts, even if a password has been
compromised. By improving confidentiality,
they also assure me that the integrity of my
accounts is intact.
Having processes and procedures in place to
organize security efforts and make informed
decisions is important for any organization.
I’m so excited to get started—and I hope you
are too!
Imagine you’re working as a security analyst
and receive multiple alerts about suspicious
activity on the network.
You realize that you’ll need to implement
additional security measures to keep these
alerts from becoming serious incidents.
But where do you start? As an analyst,
you’ll start by identifying your
organization’s critical assets and risks.
Then, you’ll implement the necessary
frameworks and controls.
In this video, we’ll discuss how security
professionals use frameworks to continuously
identify and manage risk.
We'll also cover how to use security
controls to manage or reduce specific risks.
Security frameworks are guidelines used for
building plans to help mitigate risk and
threats to data and privacy.
Security frameworks provide a structured
approach to implementing a security
lifecycle. The security lifecycle is a
constantly evolving set of policies and
standards that define how an organization
manages risks, follows established
guidelines, and meets regulatory compliance
- or laws.
There are several security frameworks that
may be used to manage different types of
organizational and regulatory compliance
risks.
The purpose of security frameworks includes
protecting personally identifiable
information - known as P-I-I - securing
financial information, identifying security
weaknesses, managing organizational risks,
and aligning security with business goals.
Frameworks have four core components and
understanding them will allow you to better
manage potential risks.
The first core component is identifying and
documenting security goals.
For example, an organization may have a goal
to align with the E.U.'s General Data
Protection Regulation law, also known as
G-D-P-R.
G-D-P-R is a data protection law established
to grant European citizens more control over
their personal data. A security analyst may
be asked to identify and document areas where
an organization is out of compliance with
G-D-P-R.
The second core component is setting
guidelines to achieve security goals.
For example, when implementing guidelines to
achieve G-D-P-R compliance, your organization
may need to develop new policies for how to
handle data requests from individual users.
The third core component of security
frameworks is implementing strong security
processes. In the case of G-D-P-R, a
security analyst working for a social media
company may help design procedures to ensure
the organization complies with verified user
data requests.
An example of this type of request is when a
user attempts to update or delete their
profile information.
The last core component of security
frameworks is monitoring and communicating
results. As an example, you may monitor your
organization's internal network, and report a
potential security issue affecting G-D-P-R
to your manager or regulatory compliance
officer. Now that we’ve introduced the four
core components of security frameworks, let’s
tie them all together. Frameworks allow
analysts to work alongside other members of a
security team to document, implement, and
use the policies and procedures that have
been created. It’s essential for an
entry-level analyst to understand this
process because it directly affects the work
they do and how they collaborate with others.
Next, we’ll discuss security controls.
Security Controls are safeguards designed to
reduce SPECIFIC security risks.
For example, your company may have a
guideline that requires all employees to
complete a privacy training to reduce the
risk of data breaches.
As a security analyst, you may use a
software tool to automatically assign and
track which employees have completed this
training.
Security frameworks and controls are vital to
managing security for all types of
organizations and ensuring that everyone is
doing their part to maintain a low level of
risk. Understanding their purpose and how
they are used allows analysts to support an
organization’s security goals and protect
the people it serves.
In the following videos, we’ll discuss some
well-known frameworks and principles that
analysts need to be aware of to minimize
risk, and protect data and users.
Hi, welcome back!
Previously, we discussed frameworks and
controls in general.
In this video, you'll learn about SPECIFIC
frameworks and controls that organizations
can voluntarily use to minimize risks to
their data and to protect users.
Let’s get started! The C-I-A triad is a
foundational model that helps inform how
organizations consider risk when setting up
systems and security policies.
C-I-A stands for confidentiality, integrity,
and availability.
Confidentiality means that only authorized
users can access specific assets or data.
For example, strict access controls that
define who should and should not have access
to data must be put in place to ensure
confidential data remains safe.
Integrity means the data is correct,
authentic, and reliable.
To maintain integrity, security professionals
can use a form of data protection like
encryption to safeguard data from being
tampered with.
Availability means data is accessible to
those who are authorized to access it.
As an example, a director may have more
access to certain data than a department
manager because directors usually oversee
more employees.
Let’s define a term that came up during our
discussion of the C-I-A triad: asset.
An asset is an item perceived as having value
to an organization.
And value is determined by the cost
associated with the asset in question.
For example, an application that stores
sensitive data, such as social security
numbers or bank accounts, is a valuable
asset to an organization.
It carries more risk and therefore requires
tighter security controls in comparison to a
website that shares publicly available news
content.
As you may remember, earlier in the course we
discussed frameworks and controls in general.
Now, we’ll discuss a specific framework
developed by the U.S.-based National
Institute of Standards and Technology: the
Cybersecurity Framework, also referred to as
the NIST C-S-F.
The NIST Cybersecurity Framework is a
voluntary framework that consists of
standards, guidelines, and best practices to
manage cybersecurity risk.
It’s important to become familiar with this
framework because security teams use it as a
baseline to manage short and long-term risk.
Managing and mitigating risks AND protecting
an organization's assets from threat actors
are key goals for security professionals.
Understanding the different motives a threat
actor may have, alongside identifying your
organization’s most valuable assets is
important.
Some of the most dangerous threat actors to
consider are disgruntled employees.
They’re the MOST dangerous because they
often have access to sensitive information
and know where to find it.
In order to reduce this type of risk,
security professionals would use the
principle of availability, as well as
organizational guidelines based on
frameworks, to ensure staff members can only
access the data they need to perform their
jobs. Threat actors originate from all
across the globe, and a diverse workforce of
security professionals helps organizations
identify attackers' intentions.
A variety of perspectives can assist
organizations in understanding and mitigating
the impact of malicious activity.
That concludes our introduction to the CIA
triad and NIST CSF framework, which are used
to develop processes to secure organizations
and the people they serve!
You may be asked in an interview if you know
about security frameworks and principles.
Or you may be asked to explain how they’re
used to secure organizational assets.
In either case, throughout this program
you’ll have multiple opportunities to learn
more about them and apply what we’ve
discussed to real-world situations.
Coming up, we’ll discuss the ethics of
security.
See you soon! In security, new technologies
present new challenges.
For every new security incident or risk, the
right or wrong decision isn’t always clear.
For example, imagine that you’re working as
an entry-level security analyst and you have
received a high risk alert.
You investigate the alert and discover data
has been transferred without authorization.
You work diligently to identify who made the
transfer and discover it is one of your
friends from work. What do you do?
Ethically, as a security professional your
job is to remain unbiased and maintain
security and confidentiality.
While it’s normal to want to protect a
friend, regardless of who the user in
question may be, your responsibility and
obligation is to adhere to the policies and
protocols you’ve been trained to follow.
In many cases, security teams are entrusted
with greater access to data and information
than other employees.
Security professionals must respect that
privilege and act ethically at all times.
Security ethics are guidelines for making
appropriate decisions as a security
professional. As another example, if you as
an analyst have the ability to grant yourself
access to payroll data and can give yourself
a raise, just because you have access to do
so, does that mean you should?
The answer is no. You should never abuse the
access you’ve been granted and entrusted
with. Let’s discuss ethical principles that
may raise questions as you navigate solutions
for mitigating risks.
These are confidentiality, privacy
protections, and laws.
Let’s begin with the first ethical principle,
confidentiality.
Earlier we discussed confidentiality as part
of the C-I-A triad; now let's discuss how
confidentiality can be applied to ethics.
As a security professional, you’ll encounter
proprietary or private information, such as
P-I-I. It’s your ethical duty to keep that
information confidential and safe.
For example, you may want to help out a
coworker by providing computer system access
outside of properly documented channels.
However, this ethical violation can result
in serious consequences including reprimands,
the loss of your professional reputation,
and legal repercussions for both you and your
friend. The second ethical principle to
consider is privacy protections.
Privacy protection means safeguarding
personal information from unauthorized use.
For example, imagine you receive a personal
email after hours from your manager
requesting a colleague’s home phone number.
Your manager explains that they can’t access
the employee database at the moment, but they
need to discuss an urgent matter with that
person.
As a security analyst, your role is to follow
the policies and procedures of your company,
which in this example, state that employee
information is stored in a secure database
and should NEVER be accessed or shared in
any other format.
So, accessing and sharing the employee’s
personal information would be unethical.
In situations like this, it can be difficult
to know what to do.
So, the best response is to adhere to the
policies and procedures set by your
organization. A third important ethical
principle we must discuss is the law.
Laws are rules that are recognized by a
community and enforced by a governing entity.
For example, consider a staff member at a
hospital who has been trained to handle
P-I-I, and S-P-I-I for compliance.
The staff member has files with confidential
data that should never be left unsupervised,
but the staff member is late for a meeting.
Instead of locking the files in a designated
area, the files are left on the staff
member’s desk, unsupervised.
Upon the employee’s return, the files are
missing.
The staff member has just violated multiple
compliance regulations, and their actions
were unethical and illegal since their
negligence has likely resulted in the loss of
private patient and hospital data.
As you enter the security field, remember
that technology is constantly evolving and so
are attacker's tactics and techniques.
Because of this, security professionals must
continue to think critically about how to
respond to attacks.
Having a strong sense of ethics can guide
your decisions to ensure that the proper
processes and procedures are followed to
mitigate these continually evolving risks.
You are now better prepared to understand and
help make decisions regarding assessing and
managing risk. Let’s review what we’ve
covered.
We discussed security frameworks and controls
and how they’re used to develop processes and
procedures that protect organizations and
the people they serve.
We also discussed core components of
frameworks, such as identifying security
goals and establishing guidelines to achieve
those goals.
Then, we introduced specific frameworks and
controls, including the C-I-A triad and the
NIST C-S-F, and how they are used to manage
risk.
And finally, we discussed security ethics,
including common ethical issues to consider,
such as confidentiality, privacy
protections, and laws.
You’re almost there, only one more section to
go in this course!
Coming up, you’ll learn about common tools
and programming languages used by security
analysts to protect organizational
operations.
Hope you’re as excited as I am to keep going!
Welcome to the final section of this course!
Here, we’ll be introducing tools and
programming languages that are commonly used
in the security field.
They are essential for monitoring security
in an organization because they enhance
efficiency by automating tasks.
Although we’re only introducing these
concepts and tools at this point, later in
the program you’ll have opportunities to use
them in a variety of hands-on activities.
In the following videos, you’ll learn about
security incident and event management, or
SIEM, tools.
You’ll also be introduced to other tools
such as playbooks and network protocol
analyzers. Then, you’ll learn about the
Linux operating system and security related
tasks that are initiated through programming
languages such as SQL, and Python.
For me, SQL is one of the most useful tools.
It allows me to explore all the different
data sources we collect, and it allows my
team to analyze the data for trends.
Take your time going through the videos and
if you need to, rewatch them.
Also know that these tools will be discussed
in much more detail, and you will be able to
practice them firsthand, later in the
certificate program.
While every organization has their own set of
tools and training materials that you’ll
learn to use on the job, this program will
provide you with foundational knowledge that
will help you succeed in the security
industry.
Let’s get started! As mentioned earlier,
security is like preparing for a storm.
If you identify a leak, the color or shape
of the bucket you use to catch the water
doesn’t matter. What IS important is
mitigating the risks and threats to your
home, by using the tools available to you.
As an entry-level security analyst, you’ll
have a lot of tools in your toolkit that you
can use to mitigate potential risks.
In this video, we'll discuss the primary
purposes and functions of some commonly used
security tools. And later in the program,
you’ll have hands-on opportunities to
practice using them. Before discussing tools
further, let's briefly discuss logs, which
are the source of data that the tools we’ll
cover are designed to organize.
A log is a record of events that occur within
an organization’s systems.
Examples of security related logs include
records of employees signing into their
computers or accessing web-based services.
Logs help security professionals identify
vulnerabilities and potential security
breaches. The first tools we’ll discuss are
Security Information and Event Management
tools, or SIEM tools.
A SIEM tool is an application that collects
and analyzes log data to monitor critical
activities in an organization.
The acronym S-I-E-M may be pronounced as sim
or seem, but we'll use sim throughout this
program. SIEM tools collect real-time - or
instant - information and allow security
analysts to identify potential breaches as
they happen.
Imagine having to read pages and pages of
logs to determine if there are any security
threats. Depending on the amount of data, it
could take hours or days.
SIEM tools reduce the amount of data an
analyst must review by providing alerts for
specific types of risks and threats.
Next, let’s go over examples of commonly used
SIEM tools: Splunk and Chronicle.
Splunk is a data analysis platform, and
Splunk Enterprise provides SIEM solutions.
Splunk Enterprise is a self-hosted tool used
to retain, analyze, and search an
organization's log data.
Another SIEM tool is Google’s Chronicle.
Chronicle is a cloud-native SIEM tool that
stores security data for search and analysis.
Cloud-native means that Chronicle allows for
fast delivery of new features.
Both of these SIEM tools, and SIEMs in
general, collect data from multiple places,
then analyze and filter that data to allow
security teams to prevent and quickly react
to potential security threats.
As a security analyst, you may find yourself
using SIEM tools to analyze filtered events
and patterns, perform incident analysis, or
proactively search for threats.
Depending on your organization's SIEM setup
and risk focus, the tools and how they
function may differ, but ultimately they are
ALL used to mitigate risk.
Other key tools that you will use in your
role as a security analyst - AND that you’ll
have hands-on opportunities to use later in
the program - are playbooks and network
protocol analyzers.
A playbook is a manual that provides details
about any operational action, such as how to
respond to an incident.
Playbooks, which vary from one organization
to the next, guide analysts in how to handle
a security incident before, during, and
after it has occurred.
Playbooks can pertain to security or
compliance reviews, access management, and
many other organizational tasks that require
a documented process from beginning to end.
Another tool you may use as a security
analyst is a network protocol analyzer, also
called packet sniffer.
A packet sniffer is a tool designed to
capture and analyze data traffic within a
network. Common network protocol analyzers
include t-c-p-dump and Wireshark.
As an entry-level analyst, you don’t have to
be an expert in these tools.
As you continue through this certificate
program and get more hands-on practice,
you’ll continuously build your understanding
of how to use these tools to identify,
assess, and mitigate risks.
As we discussed previously, organizations use
a variety of tools - such as SIEMs,
playbooks, and packet sniffers - to better
manage, monitor, and analyze security
threats. But those aren’t the only tools in
an analyst’s tool kit.
Analysts also use programming languages and
operating systems to accomplish essential
tasks. In this video, we’ll introduce you to
Python and SQL programming, and the Linux
operating system. All of which you’ll have
an opportunity to practice using later in the
certificate program. Organizations can use
programming to create a specific set of
instructions for a computer to execute
tasks.
Programming allows analysts to complete
repetitive tasks and processes with a high
degree of accuracy and efficiency.
It also helps reduce the risk of human
error, and can save hours or days compared to
performing the work manually.
Now that you’re aware of what programming
languages are used for, let’s discuss a
specific and related operating system called
Linux, and two programming languages: SQL and
Python. Linux is an open-source - or
publicly available - operating system.
Unlike other operating systems you may be
familiar with, for example macOS or Windows,
Linux relies on a command line as the
primary user interface.
Linux itself is not a programming language,
but it does allow for the use of text-based
commands between the user and the operating
system.
You’ll learn more about Linux later in the
program.
A common use of Linux for entry-level
security analysts is examining logs to better
understand what’s occurring in a system.
For example, you might find yourself using
commands to review an error log when
investigating uncommonly high network
traffic.
Next, let’s discuss SQL.
S-Q-L stands for structured query language.
SQL is a programming language used to create,
interact with, and request information from a
database. A database is an organized
collection of information or data.
There may be millions of data points in a
database.
So an entry-level security analyst would use
SQL to filter through the data points to
retrieve specific information.
The last programming language we’ll introduce
is Python.
Security professionals can use Python to
perform tasks that are repetitive and
time-consuming, and that require a high
level of detail and accuracy.
As a future analyst, it's important to
understand that every organization's tool kit
may be somewhat different, based on their
security needs.
The main point is that you're familiar with
some industry standard tools because that
will show employers that you have the
ability to learn how to use THEIR tools to
protect the organization and the people it
serves.
You're doing great! Later in the course
you'll learn more about Linux and programming
languages, and you'll practice using these
tools in security-related scenarios.
That completes the introduction to security
tools and programming languages!
In this section of the course, we covered
SIEM tools such as Splunk and Chronicle.
We also discussed how SIEM tools are used by
security analysts to complete different
tasks. Then, we discussed other tools such
as playbooks and network protocol analyzers,
also called packet sniffers.
Finally, we introduced the Linux operating
system and the programming languages SQL and
Python. Remember, the tools we discussed
take time to understand completely.
But having a basic understanding of these
tools can help you get a job in the security
field and progress in your career!
Congratulations on completing the first
course!
We’ve come so far and covered so much about
a really exciting industry.
I find cybersecurity to be exciting because
it's dynamic, there are always new puzzles to
solve, and the work of protecting our users
is worthwhile.
Before we move on, let’s take a moment to
celebrate and reflect on what we’ve covered:
First, we introduced core security concepts,
including what security is and why it
matters. We also discussed what an
entry-level security analyst does, and some
skills related to the role.
Then, we transitioned to eight security
domains, which include security and risk
management, asset security, and security
operations.
Next, we highlighted security frameworks and
controls.
Specifically, the CIA triad model and the
NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
Finally, we explored common tools and
programming languages used by security
analysts, such as SIEMs, playbooks, SQL, and
Python.
I hope you’re proud of the work you’ve done
so far.
No matter what direction you take in the
security industry, everything you’ve learned
lays the foundation for the next phase of
your career.
And, as you move through this program,
you’ll have the chance to develop your skills
further. In the next course, my colleague
will provide more details about several of
the topics introduced in this course.
Hi! I'm Ashley and I will be guiding you
through the next course of this certificate
program. We’ll discuss security domains and
business operations in greater detail.
I’m so glad I was able to be here for the
beginning of your journey.
You’re off to a great start.
I'm excited for you to reach your goal of
joining the security industry!
