"Where to begin in hacking, which 
resources are the best to use,  
what programming language to learn, how 
to practically work in cybersecurity,  
which studies to pursue, and what profession 
to aim for—In Today's video we'll talk about  
all that and more. By the end of this video, 
you will know the steps to follow and have a  
learning plan for your future in the field. In 
fact, there is no one-size-fits-all path that is  
stable and applicable to everyone, unlike a cake 
recipe that everyone can follow step by step.
So, I will help you choose a path that suits you,  
rather than providing one that is not fitting. 
It's important to know that I provide advice  
based on my few years of experience in 
the field, but it's nothing compared to  
the scope of cybersecurity. The only thing I 
am sure of is that you can progress with or  
without a diploma. I learned on my own through 
my mistakes and my passion for the field. So,  
I will base my advice on my experience and what I 
would have done if I had to start all over today.
There are two things that will consistently be 
your allies in your journey towards learning  
hacking: firstly, practice. you progress 
only by doing, even by making mistakes  
through practice. Secondly, one or more 
guides along the way will always be useful.
There are 4 skills in cybersecurity and 
they are programming, computer networks,  
operating systems, including Linux, and 
all the related skills. Your starting  
point should be one of these four pillars, 
and you will see that no matter what you do,  
you will come across one or the other, 
sometimes even intertwining. It's not  
very important which one to start with; do 
what feels right for you. Keep in mind that  
there is no magical path. everything you learn 
among these pillars will be useful regardless,  
and you won't waste your time. You 
will consistently gain experience.
To help you choose, I'll give you the example 
of my personal case. I started with programming,  
more precisely, I got a guide on Visual 
Basic.NET, installed Visual Studio,  
and fried my brain to create my first 
programs. They were horribly bad,  
and any programmer would have mocked me, but it 
doesn't matter. The goal is to start and practice.
After learning Visual Basic, I learned 
the C language, through online courses.  
This language is important to understand the 
functioning of systems because it requires  
greater proximity to RAM. I downloaded Linux 
virtual machines to learn C programming and  
also how Linux works. This multi-pronged 
learning approach was very effective. Then,  
I learned web languages like PHP and 
JavaScript to create and modify my website.
Keep in mind that learning doesn't mean 
becoming an expert. Learning means being  
able to master the subject within 
the scope of your projects and goals.  
That's why you don't have to learn 
programming languages from A to Z,  
one after another. No one does that. Remember that 
practice, time, and guides are your best allies.
The best way improve your skills in hacking is 
to have projects. For example, I wanted to know  
how viruses work, how they hide in a system, and 
more generally, how hackers operate. So, I wanted  
to create my own parental control software, 
among other more or less whimsical projects.
With web languages, I wanted to build my website 
to share what I've learned, and once in the web,  
you're never far from networks and systems. I 
rented a Linux server to host the site, learned  
to use it, learned Linux commands, and learned 
system and network administration. I wanted  
to focus on web security to protect my site and 
future clients' sites. So, I needed to understand  
the functioning of certain network protocols 
like HTTPS, DNS, ARP, IP, and many others.
In the end, it brings us to the last pillar, 
which is transversal to all others. Here,  
you'll find skills in languages, 
especially English, social engineering,  
and knowledge of standards, 
references, and laws in the field.
You need to find your own path. Now, you 
know everything you need to go fast and far:  
a guide a project, and time to 
practice gradually. If you start now,  
you'll always be one step ahead 
of those who start tomorrow.
You don't need a budget of 1000 dollars, you don't 
need a diploma. If you have an internet connection  
and a computer, that's enough. You don't even need 
to spend ten hours a day learning. Just start.
If you want to start with programming, study 
algorithms and data structures. If you don't  
know which language to start with, choose 
Python because it's one of the most popular  
and essential languages. I'll provide all 
the links to start in the description,  
including a website that gives you all the basics 
of a programming language in a single source code.
If you want to start with networks, the best 
place in my opinion is professor messer. learn  
the basics of the OSI model and TCP/IP. Learn 
the functioning of certain protocols like HTTPS,  
DNS, ARP, IP, and more. You can move on 
to vulnerabilities in these protocols and  
Wi-Fi security. Tools like Wireshark will help 
you understand the TCP/IP model in practice.
If you want to start with systems,  
download and install a Linux distribution like 
Kali Linux. Learn the architecture of Linux,  
the terminal, and commands. You can use 
security tools or shell scripts in your  
learning. and you can learn all this in this 
amazing website that's called linux journey
If you want to start with related skills, 
strengthen your social engineering skills.  
Learn to think like an attacker by discovering 
various scenarios and attacks or scams that exist,  
all with the appropriate defense measures. 
If you work in the field later on,  
your goal will be to fix all that. 
There are always subdomains that  
potentially involve other subdomains, 
but you don't need to know all of them  
before starting. You will naturally 
come across them in your learning.
In the end, a hacker is, above all, a person 
who knows the details of computers. Knowing  
computers translates into many jobs 
and situations. A coder, for example,  
is a programmer who will try to find flaws 
in a code or build antivirus software.
A tester is an expert in cyber-attacks who will 
attack a company at its request to protect it.
A hacker is also and above all, a person 
concerned about ethics and laws. They have  
versatile skills useful to many companies. 
This is just a fraction of the possibilities,  
not to mention the future of the Internet 
of Things, artificial intelligence,  
or bioinformatics. Cybersecurity jobs 
of tomorrow don't even exist yet.
Never forget that the true hacking community 
doesn't want people trying to hack others.  
Being a hacker is helping others, and not putting 
on the Anonymous mask to ask how to hack your ex.
Being a hacker is also being in constant 
learning, even ten years after starting;  
you will still learn. Cybersecurity is an exciting  
and endless field. You've already made 
the excellent choice to learn hacking,  
a field that will take you far with prized and 
indispensable skills. That's all I wish for you.
If you're still a bit lost, that's normal. 
you can do it. My goal is to help you reach  
yours. So, if you have any questions, don't 
hesitate. Thanks for watching and peace."
