welcome to whiteboard programming, where we 
simplify programming with easy to understand  
whiteboard videos and today i'll be sharing with 
you what is cloud storage, how does it work, a  
few benefits it offers, and a lot more ... so lets 
get started! first, lets brush up the basics, lets  
understand what does cloud, cloud computing and 
cloud storage mean? well, the cloud is an internet  
data center where software and services reside, 
instead of them being stored on local hardware  
such as your computer or any other electronic 
device cloud computing is something which  
harnesses the power of the internet to outsource 
tasks, such as housing software or file storage  
and cloud storage refers to the process of saving 
data to an offsite storage system or to state more  
technically, stashing data on a hardware in a 
remote physical location, which can be accessed  
from any device via the internet in this case, 
clients send files to a data server maintained  
by a cloud provider instead of storing it on their 
own hard drives a good example of such a service  
would be dropbox, which lets users store and 
share files through ease of internet. these cloud  
storage systems generally encompass hundreds of 
data servers linked together by a master control  
server, but the simplest system might involve 
just one as well. and so to think, this also  
allows you to build back up and access your files 
from any device that is connected to the internet  
so, the next time you ask "where’s my stuff?" 
once you get it onto platforms like dropbox,  
the answer would be two words: data centres. as 
anything you’ve uploaded to the cloud, or that you  
run from the cloud, exists on dedicated servers 
and storage volumes housed in vast warehouses,  
often situated on campuses full of such 
warehouses. these data centers are owned by  
cloud service providers, who are responsible for 
keeping the servers up and running and to say,  
the job of all these data centres, however big 
or small, is to keep your data physically safe  
from theft and destruction and to make sure it’s 
available whenever you want to access it next,  
lets understand how does cloud storage work? ... 
well, to be honest, cloud storage works simple and  
easy. here, once you purchase cloud storage from 
a third-party cloud vendor, they own and operate  
their data storage capacity and deliver it to 
you over the internet in a pay-as-you-go model.  
these cloud storage vendors manage capacity, 
security and durability to make data accessible  
to your applications all around the world these 
applications can access cloud storage through  
traditional storage protocols or directly via an 
api. and to your surprise, many such vendors offer  
complementary services designed to help collect, 
manage, secure and analyze data at a massive scale  
some of the best cloud vendors that i can 
recommend are amazon web services (aws), microsoft  
azure, google cloud platform, and digitalocean. 
but managing them can become quite a task,  
so in case you are looking for a managed cloud 
hosting provider then, i'll highly recommend using  
cloudways as its built for high performance with 
faster growth, which allows you to get more work  
done in less time... do check the link in the 
description to learn more about their services  
next, lets talk about the advantages or 
benefits of cloud storage the first one  
being accessibility, as our files are accessible 
from any device with an internet connection  
2. scalability as it is no longer necessary 
to purchase thousands of dollars of hardware,  
software and server space for a “just in 
case” scenario 3. disaster recovery as any  
cloud storage offers constant storage backups 
that are made to a secure offsite location  
4. ease of use, as in many cases one can simply 
drag and drop your files from one location on  
your smartphone or computer into the cloud 5. 
no on-site server maintenance required (using  
cloud storage eliminates the need for on-site 
server maintenance) and last but not the least,  
6. security as data on cloud is protected 
by a combination of strong encryptions  
which restricts any unauthorized person cannot 
access the files shared or uploaded by you  
next, now that we understand what is cloud storage 
and how does it work, lets understand some of the  
main considerations we should account for 
when implementing a cloud storage solution  
1. security. as all the data is ideally encrypted, 
both at rest and in transit. permissions and  
access controls should work just as well in 
the cloud as they do for on-premise storage  
2. durability. on cloud, data 
should be redundantly stored,  
ideally across multiple facilities and in multiple 
devices in each facility and natural disasters,  
human error, or mechanical faults 
should not result in a data loss  
3. availability. by this, we mean to say that 
all data should be available when needed,  
as there's a difference between retrieving 
production data and archives; and henceforth,  
the ideal cloud storage should deliver the 
right balance of retrieval times and cost  
with that, i hope this video was helpful to 
you and served value. if you love my content,  
feel free to smash that like button and if 
you haven't already subscribed to my channel,  
please do as it keeps me motivated and helps 
me create more content like this for you
