welcome to whiteboard programming, where we 
simplify programming with easy to understand  
whiteboard videos and today I'll be sharing 
with you types of cloud storage, alongside  
their meaning, individual advantages, and 
disadvantages they offer... so let's get started!  
when considering storing data in the cloud, you 
have three main cloud storage types available to  
choose from, the first one being, block storage, 
which is a technology primarily used for storing  
data files in cloud-based storage environments, 
or on storage area networks (sans). in the cloud,  
it is typically implemented through the attachment 
of a virtual disk to a cloud-based virtual machine  
to state the least, block storage uses the process 
of breaking data into individual blocks, which can  
then be stored as individual pieces. each data 
block is given a unique identifier, which further  
allows the storage system to place the smaller 
pieces of data in the most efficient location.  
and here, the approach itself involves storing 
blocks across different systems, with each  
block configured (or partitioned) to work with 
a different operating system. this means blocks  
of the same original data can be stored in both 
a linux environment and a windows unit as well  
further, by decoupling data from your user 
environment, block storage allows the data  
to be spread across multiple environments. 
in creating such multiple paths to the data,  
the process of retrieving data is accelerated. 
so, here, if you or an application request data  
from a block storage system, the data is 
retrieved and reassembled by the underlying  
storage system before being presented back to 
you also, block storage is a popular choice in  
modern data centers due to the advantages it 
offers like higher performance, scalability,  
ease of file modifications, and 
operating system bootability....  
but similarly, it does has its drawbacks as well, 
which include issues related to server binding,  
metadata limitations, and higher cost some of 
the major use cases for block storage include  
building transactional databases, email servers, 
and virtual machine file system (or vmfs) volumes  
next on the list, 2. object storage 
or also known as object-based storage,  
is a process that involves splitting data 
files into individual chunks known as objects.  
these objects are further stored in a single 
self-contained repository and can be distributed  
across multiple cloud-based servers and networked 
systems here, each object is given a unique  
identifier, which can be used by applications to 
identify and retrieve objects when stored across a  
distributed system. also, metadata is attached to 
each object which contains important information.  
this further can be extremely detailed and 
can include information like object size,  
date last modified, media type, and access rights 
also, the flat structure of object storage makes  
it efficient to store large quantities of data. 
and it’s also possible to store any kind of data,  
be it photos, videos, and log files as objects 
with it further, a few of the major advantages of  
object storage include reduced complexity, ease of 
searchability, resiliency, and cost efficiency...  
but similarly, object storage disadvantages 
include no locking mechanism, inability to  
use object storage services to back a traditional 
database, operating systems can’t easily mount an  
object storage like a normal disk and in 
addition, object storage tends to be the  
least well-performing of all storage modes 
because of the heavier metadata overheads  
some of the major use cases for object storage 
include building iot data management systems,  
disaster recovery storage, data 
analytics and video surveillance  
next, 3. file storage so, file storage in the 
cloud is a hierarchical approach to storing data,  
and is also known as file-level or file-based 
storage. the process involves storing data in  
files, then these files are arranged in folders, 
which are then organized into directories and  
subdirectories. for users and applications to 
locate and retrieve a file, they will need to know  
the pathway from the directory all the way through 
to the folder and specific file. this information  
is included in a set amount of metadata that 
is attached to the file to state further,  
file storage has a range of capabilities 
and can store almost any type of data.  
and just like with any computer, you can store a 
range of complex files, and it’s fairly quick for  
you to navigate. it’s also very easy to configure 
wherein you can control access to files with user  
rights, file locking, and other controls and if 
seen from a technical approach, hierarchical file  
storage performs well to a point. but do note that 
once your file storage gets to a certain size,  
you will begin to experience performance issues 
with a slow-down in file retrieval. this is caused  
by the constraints of only having a single pathway 
to each file, which only continues to increase as  
more folders, directories, and subdirectories 
are added to the system and don't you worry  
by the way, here, the nature of cloud systems 
will allow you to mitigate these performance  
issues to a certain extent. scaling too with file 
storage system includes adding higher-capacity  
virtual machines with additional compute power. 
though, you may find it less efficient and more  
expensive than if you were to instead opt for an 
object or block storage approach for your system  
some of the major use cases for file storage 
include building financial modeling systems,  
machine learning, application migrations, and 
running web content management infrastructure  
lastly, are you wondering which cloud storage 
type you should use? well, the type of storage  
selected affects the cost of the storage and how 
easily you can access the data in the future.  
organizations must account for factors like 
cost, scalability, retrievability, security,  
data volumes, and ease of management when 
choosing any of the cloud storage types for  
their use case. further, as new data types and 
use cases arise, organizations must constantly  
evaluate and optimize their storage types for 
each subset of data. and accordingly, storage  
strategies and decisions should continually 
evolve as business needs and technology changes  
with that, I hope this video was helpful to 
you and served value. if you love my content,  
feel free to smash that like button and if 
you haven't already subscribed to my channel,  
please do as it keeps me motivated and helps 
me create more content like this for you
