Hey everyone. Today, let's talk about 
RPA, or Robotic Process Automation.  
In my opinion, the definition lies 
more in the terms process automation  
and less than actual robots. But RPA is changing 
the software world much like physical robots have  
changed the world that we live in every 
day. For example, take a vending machine,  
there's not a person standing there sorting 
all your money and bending the goods it's  
automated because it's a tedious task. Now RPA 
is doing the same thing in the software world  
for tedious repetitive tasks. But for things 
like IT, or even Business Process Management,  
RPA is not going to help and that's because 
these require more specialized skills.  
So where can RPA assist? Well let's start with an 
example inspired by one of my favorite TV shows.  
Let's say we've got a disgruntled employee, 
we're going to call him Pete. Now Pete has  
to take a number of documents that are stored 
you know digitally and then convert them into  
forms that he then has to file. So this is a very 
tedious task so he has to take all of these forms,  
write them out manually, and then 
finally actually go and file them.  
So this process let's see has to do this you know 
10,000 times. That means, you know Pete's going  
to be pretty unhappy about this because this is a 
very tedious repetitive task it's something that  
you know with RPA he could actually automate. So, 
let's see what Pete would do if he wanted to set  
up an automation to do this flow. So the first 
thing he has to do is identify what's the data,  
where is it coming from. So in this 
particular example the data is already in  
a computer somewhere and let's say that's coming 
in through email, or maybe his co-worker Kelly  
is manually inputting them from you know phone 
calls with customers. So they take the customer  
forms they they put them into the computer. Now 
Pete has to extract data, right. So that's going  
to be the first thing that RPA can help with. Now, 
so with OCR, or Optical Character Recognition,  
along with the data that's in the computer Pete's 
able to pull out data and what he's going to do  
is actually extract that data for further 
processing. So that data can be things like  
the customer's name and the info, let's say 
in the customer form it's the complaints that  
make up that information. So taking that data 
so the next thing Pete's going to do is let's  
say validate it so make sure that none of the data 
is corrupt and you know all the data looks good.  
Finally he has to input it into a digital 
form. So he puts it into a digital form  
and finally he sends it off to a printer. Now at 
this phase all Pete really has to do is take the  
final forms that are printed out and then file 
them and that's going to be a whole lot easier  
to do than doing this manually for all 10,000 
customer complaint forms that are coming in.  
So that's where RPA can really assist with tedious 
repetitive tasks that require things like clicking  
through user interfaces, copying and pasting data, 
or kind of other things like Optical Character  
Recognition where you have to extract data. So, 
when choosing an RPA solution which is going to  
enable you to do this type of automation, I'd say 
there's four major things that you really need to  
be looking for. Now the first one I'm going to 
start with you want to make sure that your RPA  
tool is intelligent. Now in this particular flow, 
Pete used a lot of capabilities so he used OCR,  
Optical Character Recognition, in addition he 
used different data manipulation techniques.  
So this enables Pete to do things 
like extract, input data, validate it,  
and finally he even had a function to be able 
to print something out create a physical piece  
of paper from a software-based automation. 
That's just scratching the tip of what Robot  
RPA can do today. So, another thing RPA can 
do is things like AI or machine learning to  
train a model to recognize not just you know 
simple characters, but maybe even images. So,  
that's something that Pete might want to 
augment this automation with in the future.  
So, that's one thing you want to make 
sure is that your RPA tool is intelligent.  
Number two, low code. So, RPA is really only going 
to be effective if the users that are creating  
these automation find that process to be easy, 
otherwise management might choose to actually just  
have their employees do it manually if creating 
this type of automation was too time consuming.  
So, a low code RPA environment is going to 
enable Pete to do things like drag and drop  
components and have minimal touch to actually 
get this automation created end to end.  
Number three, concurrency. So this is going 
to be the ability to run multiple robots at  
the same time, multiple automation tasks. 
So, for the 10,000 customer complaint forms,  
say this task takes 15 seconds, that's a lot of 
time. So, imagine if you could launch multiple  
robots and divvy up that work well you could get 
through the task at hand much more quickly. So an  
RPA solution should have concurrency support. And 
the last one I want to mention here is RPA as a  
Service. Now an "as a Service" model is going 
to come with a number of advantages. For one,  
it's going to give you shorter time to value and 
that's because Pete doesn't have to worry about  
spinning up his own infrastructure, installing 
the software, managing that environment, he can  
just log in and start building these automations 
right away. That brings me to my next point,  
currency, so not concurrency, but currency, which 
is keeping up with the latest versions that are  
available. So RPA and the world of RPA is changing 
quite rapidly and so with some of the intelligent  
capabilities enabled within RPA, say a new 
version of OCR comes out and he wants to use it,  
well with an RPA as a Service capability you 
can get updates more quickly, you're more  
current with the latest versions of software. 
So you get to use those latest components and  
maybe OCR 2.0 kind of helps fix some of the bugs 
with pulling data from customer complaint forms.  
Finally, I think the last one that I want to 
mention here is that it allows you to collaborate.  
So imagine that Pete builds this automation, 
publishes it, and then now wants to share it with  
the the Nashua branch of this company so that 
they can take advantage of the same process  
to automate this flow and kind of file customer 
complaint forms. So "as a Service" environments  
generally are multi-tenant and enable 
you to collaborate with your co-workers.  
So, this was a quick overview of RPA. RPA 
tools are quickly growing in popularity,  
and so is the scope of what RPA is able to 
actually automate. Now if you like this video,  
have any questions or comments, be sure to 
drop a like or a comment below. As always,  
stay tuned and subscribe for more videos like 
this in the future. Thank you. RPA is growing  
very rapidly and the scope of what RPA is able to 
automate is also growing rapidly. Now if you want  
to see what IBM is doing in the RPA space be sure 
to check out the links in the description below.
